As metioned before, this project is basically a website that enables
users to cast vote from any polling station in Pakistan securely 
and easily. The website is designed using Java based Spring Framework 
the follows the MVC pattern.For thumbprint recognition, the device used 
is Secugen Hamster Pro 20 which is connected to the laptop via USB cable.
The following explains how the main functionality works.
Accessing the website on cloud or locally opens the home page. The   
keyword 'index' gets selected in the URL. In return, the request mapping for 
'index' is looked for in the controller. In the controller, the related 
function public String First() gets called that returns the string 'home'.
Ultimately the home page gets returned. 
The voter chooses the option of 'cast vote' from the home page. The request 
goes from view to the controller where the function corresponding to the request
mapping 'castvote' gets called. The call returns the 'verifyvoter.jsp' page. 
The voter is prompted to enter his/her CNIC. Once the CNIC is entered, the 
entered field passes from the view to the controller where the function of 
service class gets called. This further calls the function of DAO class that 
checks against the database if the entered CNIC is correct. Along with other
information stored, whenever a new record is added, each of the fields in the
voter's table has a flag value that is by default set to 0 and then encrypted.
If the entered CNIC is found in the database,the flag is decrypted. If the value of 
the flag is 0, then the voter is allowed to move to the 2nd step of verification. 
If it is 1, then the voter is not allowed to go any further. 
The next step is Biometric verification, for which a thumb print scanner is used. 
The voter is asked to give his/her thumb impression which gets matched with the 
ones stored in the database. The algorithm used for thumb impression is the one 
employed by Secugen. Once the thumb print gets verified, the voter is allowed to
move to the next page.Now the voter is asked to vote for both the national and 
provisional candiates. The voter selects one of the two options so that he/she is 
presented with the cadidates of his/her constitutency. The request goes from 
view to the controller where the funtion of service class gets called. The service
class calls the fucntions of the DAO class that retrieves the respective
candidates from the database. The voter now casts a vote for both the national and 
the provincial candidates one by one. The flag in the voter's table is decrypted, 
updated to 1, encrypted and stored into the database. At the same time, the tables 
for the national and the provincial candidates get updated as well. The total votes
for the candidate voted for gets incremented, encrypted and stored into the database. 
All of the sensitive fields of the database like flag, total votes count, password etc 
are encrypted using AES encryption. The secret key for the encryption of the flag is generated 
randomly and stored into a passoword protected file.
At the admin's end, he/she can login and then add,delete and update the candidates.

